---
layout: resource
title: Introduction to Git
category: resource
permalink: /learn/intro-git/
---
{% raw %}
# Introduction to Git

## Overview

### Version Control Software

*Version Control Software* (VCS) is a tool that enables tracking of the
revisions of a document or project. VCS provides solutions to many problems
associated with working on projects that change over time or that are developed
collaboratively:

* Provides a history for a project: a list of changes with timestamps and
  descriptions. This allows you to revisit the project as it existed at any
  point.

* Exists in a shared repository: no more emailing files back and forth in a
  group; a VCS allows you to host a project in a central place.

* Resolves conflicts automatically: two or more collaborators can make a change
  to the same document at the same time, and the VCS will intelligently merge
  the changes. If there is ambiguity about the changes, the VCS will alert the
  users and allow them to resolve the conflict.

*Note*: many of the examples in this document will be programming-centric.
That doesn't mean that VCS is irrelevant to other fields. While VCS developed
in the programming community, it has uses in other contexts. You can track
revisions to a website, resumÃ©, thesis, or essay just as easily as a program.
One caveat is that most version control software systems only work well with
text documents, so images or other binary files cannot be stored easily.

### Git

Git is a specific VCS that was developed by Linus Torvalds in 2005 due to his
dissatisfaction with existing VCS solutions for working on the Linux kernel.

The reasons this document teaches Git rather than any other VCS include

* Popularity in the startup world, in open-source software development, and
  amongst young developers

* Existence of popular Git hosting solutions such as GitHub

* Coherent conceptual model

* Powerful features for distributed development

* Adaptability to a variety of workflows

* Personal familiarity of the author

## Installing Git

We had everyone install Git for DevFest 2013. See the instructions
[here](http://squidarth.github.io/Devfest-Environment-Setup/) to get it
installed (you can ignore everything except the "Installing Git" section).

## Creating a GitHub Account

## Core Concepts

**Repository**: storage location of a project's history. Also known as a *repo*.

**Working directory**: the project's state as it exists on your filesystem

**Staging area**: the set of files ready to be committed

**Commit**: snapshot of a project at a single moment in time (must be
deliberately created)

## Creating and Copying Git Repositories

*Note*: here, we use Unix-style commands and syntax. Windows may be slightly
different, or you can use Cygwin.

To work in a Git repository, we must first "get" a Git repository. We can do
this one of two ways.

### Creating a Repo (local)

We can create a repo locally. We do this with the `git init` command:

    $ mkdir git-example # make a new directory to house our repository
    $ cd git-example # change into the new directory
    $ git init
    Initialized empty Git repository in /tmp/git-example/.git/

Now, we have an empty Git repository.

### Creating a Repo (on GitHub)

More often, you'll want to host the repo somewhere like GitHub.

GitHub makes it easy to create repos. Go to the home page and click the "New Repository" button:

![New Repository Button](/img/github-new.png)

Fill out the form on that page (give your project a name, description, and add
a README to make it easier to pull down and start working on it):

![Create Repo Page](/img/github-create.png)

Now, you have a repo live at
`http://www.github.com/[github-username]/[repository-name]`.

### Getting a Remote Repo

If we want a copy of an existing Git repository on our computer, we use the
`git clone` command.

Clone the repository you just made (make sure to subsitute your GitHub username
in the first line).

    $ git clone https://github.com/[github-username]/civil-war-essay.git
    Cloning into 'civil-war-essay'...
    remote: Counting objects: 3, done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done.
    remote: Total 3 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
    Unpacking objects: 100% (3/3), done.
    Checking connectivity... done

Now, enter the directory and look around.

    $ cd civil-war-essay
    $ ls
    README.md
    $ cat README.md
    civil-war-essay
    ===============

    Example Git Repository

GitHub added a "README" file so that we could clone the repo (you cannot clone
a repo without commits). This README generally has basic information about the
project.

For now, we'll work in the `civil-war-essay` repository.

## Editing and Committing Files

An important command is `git status`. It tells you what the state of your repo,
working directory, and staging area are.

    $ git status
    # On branch master
    #
    # Initial commit
    #
    nothing to commit (create/copy files and use "git add" to track)

Right now, the output isn't very exciting because we don't have any files in
the repo. Change that:

    $ echo "This is an essay about the Civil War." > essay.txt
    $ cat essay.txt
    This is an essay about the Civil War.

We just made a new file called `essay.txt` containing the text "This is an
essay about the Civil War." (the `echo` command prints that text, and the `>
essay.txt` redirects the output into a file named `essay.txt`). `cat essay.txt`
prints out the contents of the file `essay.txt` so we can verify our work. Normally,
you would use a text editor for this instead of `echo`.

Check `git status` again:

    $ git status
    # On branch master
    #
    # Initial commit
    #
    # Untracked files:
    #   (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
    #
    #       essay.txt
    nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)

Now, we have `essay.txt` listed as an "untracked file." What this means is that
the file `essay.txt` exists on the filesystem, but not within our Git
repository.

Let's make a new *commit* including this new `essay.txt` file. First, we tell
Git that we would like to include `essay.txt` in the next commit by running
`git add`.

    $ git add essay.txt
    $ git status
    # On branch master
    #
    # Initial commit
    #
    # Changes to be committed:
    #   (use "git rm --cached <file>..." to unstage)
    #
    #       new file:   essay.txt
    #

See how `essay.txt` is now listed under "Changes to be committed"? That's exactly
what we want. Now, we can create a commit using the `git commit` command.

    $ git commit -m 'Add topic sentence'
    [master (root-commit) 52a37da] Add first file
     1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
     create mode 100644 essay.txt

The `-m` flag tells Git to include the given "message" in the Git history. We
can look at the history using the `git log` command:

    $ git log
    commit 52a37da4ca257dd672cd255f430118529fb64a45
    Author: Zack Newman <myemail@gmail.com>
    Date:   Sun Mar 23 15:17:20 2014 -0400

        Add topic sentence

    commit a6987c2a5d50e2ebd02e9836f360e880d9bb2b75
    Author: Zack Newman <myemail@gmail.com>
    Date:   Mon Mar 24 17:39:50 2014 -0700

        Initial commit

Congratulations! You've successfully added a file to the repo and made a commit.

Each commit is given a "hash"; that's what the long string of letters and
numbers is. You can think of this as an "ID" for the commit.

Now, make a change to `essay.txt` and add a new file:

    $ echo "The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in areas still in rebellion [1]." >> essay.txt
    $ echo "[1] Lincoln, Abraham. Emancipation Proclamation. 1860-something." > bibliography.txt
    $ cat essay.txt
    This is an essay about the Civil War.
    The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in areas still in rebellion [1].
    $ cat bibliography.txt
    [1] Lincoln, Abraham. Emancipation Proclamation. 1860-something.

Again, `echo` writes out its argument. Now, `>> essay.txt` takes the output of
the `echo` command and puts it at the *end* of `essay.txt`; `>
bibliography.txt` puts the output of the `echo` command in a file called
`bibliography.txt`, potentially overwriting previous contents.

Check what Git sees now:

    $ git status
    # On branch master
    # Changes not staged for commit:
    #   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
    #   (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
    #
    #       modified:   essay.txt
    #
    # Untracked files:
    #   (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
    #
    #       bibliography.txt
    no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
    $ git diff
    diff --git a/essay.txt b/essay.txt
    index 3b2aed8..6e80ea8 100644
    --- a/essay.txt
    +++ b/essay.txt
    @@ -1 +1,2 @@
    This is an essay about the Civil War.
    +The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in areas still in rebellion [1].

Now, there is a change to `essay.txt` that is "not staged for commit"; this means
that we made a change, but have not yet told Git that we plan to commit it.
`bibliography` is now listed as an "Untracked file".

`git diff` is a command that shows the difference between our working directory
and the most recent state of the Git repository. It shows new lines with a `+`
prepended and lines that were removed with a `-` prepended.

We can `git add` both `essay.txt` and `bibliography.txt` (in one command!) and
`git commit` to make a new commit.

    $ git add essay.txt bibliography.txt
    $ git commit -m 'Add fact about Emancipation and pretty reputable source'
    [master 4cc18d3] Second commit
     2 files changed, 2 insertions(+)
     create mode 100644 bibliography.txt
    $ git log
    commit 4cc18d3075b500a2e67a062a7c68e084ca5d2b81
    Author: Zack Newman <myemail@gmail.com>
    Date:   Sun Mar 23 15:28:56 2014 -0400

        Add fact about Emancipation and pretty reputable source

    commit 52a37da4ca257dd672cd255f430118529fb64a45
    Author: Zack Newman <myemail@gmail.com>
    Date:   Sun Mar 23 15:17:20 2014 -0400

        Add topic sentence

    commit a6987c2a5d50e2ebd02e9836f360e880d9bb2b75
    Author: Zack Newman <myemail@gmail.com>
    Date:   Mon Mar 24 17:39:50 2014 -0700

        Initial commit

Now our history shows the development of our essay.

## When You Screw Up

Inevitably, you're going to make mistakes when working with Git. Here's a
couple of common scenarios and how to fix them.

### Reset a Modified File (not added)

Let's say we accidentally overwrite `essay.txt`.

    $ echo "Oops" > essay.txt
    $ cat essay.txt
    Oops

Now, we want `essay.txt` back to the state it was at our last commit. To do
this, use `git checkout`.

    $ git checkout essay.txt
    $ cat essay.txt
    This is an essay about the Civil War.
    The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in areas still in rebellion [1].

This is exactly what we want! We "checked out" the good copy of `essay.txt` as
it looked during the last commit.

If you've made a bunch of changes to files

    $ echo "Oops" > essay.txt
    $ echo "Oops" > bibliography.txtt diff
    diff --git a/bibliography.txt b/bibliography.txt
    index 1185f07..b2643c5 100644
    --- a/bibliography.txt
    +++ b/bibliography.txt
    @@ -1 +1 @@
    -[1] Lincoln, Abraham. Emancipation Proclamation. 1860-something.
    +Oops
    diff --git a/essay.txt b/essay.txt
    index 3f78063..b2643c5 100644
    --- a/essay.txt
    +++ b/essay.txt
    @@ -1,2 +1 @@
    -This is an essay about the Civil War.
    -The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in areas still in rebellion [1].
    +Oops

you can "check out" all files in the current directory and below:

    $ git checkout .
    $ git diff
    $ # no output from `git diff`

### Un-stage a file

Now, imagine that you've made changes to a file AND added it, but adding those
changes was a mistake.

    $ echo "Not ready to be committed" >> essay.txt
    $ cat essay.txt
    This is an essay about the Civil War.
    The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in areas still in rebellion [1].
    Not ready to be committed
    $ git add essay.txt # oops!
    $ git status
    # On branch master
    # Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 2 commits.
    #   (use "git push" to publish your local commits)
    #
    # Changes to be committed:
    #   (use "git reset HEAD <file>..." to unstage)
    #
    #       modified:   essay.txt
    #

We can "un-add" a file with the `git reset` command. This leaves the changes
intact on the filesystem.

    $ git reset essay.txt
    Unstaged changes after reset:
    M       essay.txt
    $ git status
    # On branch master
    # Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 2 commits.
    #   (use "git push" to publish your local commits)
    #
    # Changes not staged for commit:
    #   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
    #   (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
    #
    #       modified:   essay.txt
    #
    no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")

Of course, to "un-add" a change **and** abandon local changes, you can simply
run `git checkout` after `git reset`.

    $ git checkout essay.txt

### Just Get Me Back to the Last Commit

While you can usually just use `git reset` and `git checkout` together to reset
any changes, you might find yourself with several changes that you just want
reset to the last commit.

    $ echo "Oops" > essay.txt
    $ echo "Oops" > bibliography.txt
    $ git add essay.txt
    $ git status
    # On branch master
    # Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 2 commits.
    #   (use "git push" to publish your local commits)
    #
    # Changes to be committed:
    #   (use "git reset HEAD <file>..." to unstage)
    #
    #       modified:   essay.txt
    #
    # Changes not staged for commit:
    #   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
    #   (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
    #
    #       modified:   bibliography.txt
    #

To do this, we use `git reset` along with the `--hard` flag. This nukes all
changes since the last commit.

    $ git reset --hard
    HEAD is now at 423044b Add fact about Emancipation and pretty reputable source
    $ git status
    # On branch master
    # Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 2 commits.
    #   (use "git push" to publish your local commits)
    #
    nothing to commit, working directory clean

### Undo a Commit

Suppose you have a bad commit that you want to get rid of.

    $ echo "Oops" > essay.txt
    $ git add essay.txt
    $ git commit -m 'This is a bad commit!'
    [master 1772221] This is a bad commit!
     1 file changed, 1 insertion(+), 2 deletions(-)
    $ git log
    commit 1772221bb4972617483f575a86e3f111c4a9cb9e
    Author: Zack Newman <myemail@gmail.com>
    Date:   Mon Mar 24 22:24:20 2014 -0400

        This is a bad commit!

    commit 423044beb5dbcf1d2c6b7fc3ecaa21054b1e2da3
    [...]

We can use the `git reset` command to get it out of our history.

*Note*: do **not** do this with a commit that you have shared with other people
(see the "Collaboration" section for more details).

Give it the `--hard` flag to reset all of the files too, and pass the argument
`HEAD~1` to indicate 1 commit before "HEAD" (which is another name for the
current commit). You could get rid of the last two commits by passing `HEAD~2`,
and so on.

    $ git reset --hard HEAD~1
    HEAD is now at 423044b Add fact about Emancipation and pretty reputable source
    $ git log
    commit 423044beb5dbcf1d2c6b7fc3ecaa21054b1e2da3
    Author: Zack Newman <myemail@gmail.com>
    Date:   Mon Mar 24 20:53:57 2014 -0400

        Add fact about Emancipation and pretty reputable source

    commit 7708ded00f3e3d3bc08b347ac309b3396139fe36
    [...]

If you *have* shared the commit with other people, we have to go another route.

Let's start in the same place.

    $ echo "Oops" > essay.txt
    $ git add essay.txt
    $ git commit -m 'This is a bad commit!'
    [master b7a6a24] This is a bad commit!
     1 file changed, 1 insertion(+), 2 deletions(-)

Now, we use the `git revert` command to make a new commit undoing the most
recent commit.

    $ git revert HEAD # NOTE: here you'll have to save the file that Git opens for you
    [master c4ec29c] Revert "This is a bad commit!"
     1 file changed, 2 insertions(+), 1 deletion(-)
    $ git log
    commit c4ec29c6d9264397c3d29c9ba02a49894de2daa0
    Author: Zack Newman <znewman01@gmail.com>
    Date:   Mon Mar 24 22:38:53 2014 -0400

        Revert "This is a bad commit!"

        This reverts commit b7a6a2496a25fd99c8afbfa18bd3cd026cd57812.

    commit b7a6a2496a25fd99c8afbfa18bd3cd026cd57812
    Author: Zack Newman <znewman01@gmail.com>
    Date:   Mon Mar 24 22:32:11 2014 -0400

        This is a bad commit!

    commit 423044beb5dbcf1d2c6b7fc3ecaa21054b1e2da3
    [...]

Now, you'll be at the state you were before the bad commit.

## Collaboration

One of the best things about Git is that it allows you to work collaboratively
with others. To simulate this, we'll create a new copy of the same remote
repository (in the directory `civil-war-essay-2`) and switch between it and the
first copy.

    $ cd ..
    $ git clone https://github.com/[github-username]/civil-war-essay.git civil-war-essay-2
    Cloning into 'civil-war-essay-2'...
    remote: Counting objects: 3, done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done.
    remote: Total 3 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
    Receiving objects: 100% (3/3), done.
    Checking connectivity... done

### Pushing and Pulling

Go see what's in `civil-war-essay-2`.

    $ cd civil-war-essay-2
    $ ls
    README.md

Hey, `essay.txt` and `bibliography.txt` are missing! What gives?

It turns out that when you make a commit it Git, it only makes the commit
*locally*. Run `git status` in the first copy of the repo.

    $ cd ../civil-war-essay
    $ git status
    # On branch master
    # Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 4 commits.
    #   (use "git push" to publish your local commits)
    #
    nothing to commit, working directory clean

Note the line `Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 4 commits.`. That
means that GitHub, which is the central location where we're hosting this
project, doesn't know about the last 4 commits we made.

How do we tell GitHub about our changes? Simply run `git push` (you'll have to
type in your GitHub username and password).

    $ git push
    Username for 'https://github.com': znewman01
    Password for 'https://znewman01@github.com':
    Counting objects: 12, done.
    Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
    Compressing objects: 100% (9/9), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (11/11), 1.17 KiB | 0 bytes/s, done.
    Total 11 (delta 1), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To https://github.com/znewman01/civil-war-essay.git
       a6987c2..c4ec29c  master -> master

Now, if we go to `http://www.github.com/[github-username]/[repository]`, we'll
see the changes reflected.

To get the changes in your other repository, just run `git pull`.

    $ cd ../civil-war-essay-2
    $ git pull
    remote: Counting objects: 12, done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (8/8), done.
    remote: Total 11 (delta 1), reused 11 (delta 1)
    Unpacking objects: 100% (11/11), done.
    From github.com:znewman01/civil-war-essay
       a6987c2..c4ec29c  master     -> origin/master
    Updating a6987c2..c4ec29c
    Fast-forward
     bibliography.txt | 1 +
     essay.txt        | 2 ++
     2 files changed, 3 insertions(+)
     create mode 100644 bibliography.txt
     create mode 100644 essay.txt
    $ git log
    [...]

You'll see an identical history to the one we created in the first repository.

Now, make a change, commit it, and push it from the second copy.

    $ echo "The Civil War sure was a war." >> essay.txt
    $ git add essay.txt
    $ git commit -m 'Add a third line'
    [master 89e1218] Add a third line
     1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
    $ git push
    Counting objects: 5, done.
    Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
    Compressing objects: 100% (3/3), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (3/3), 310 bytes | 0 bytes/s, done.
    Total 3 (delta 2), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To git@github.com:znewman01/civil-war-essay.git
       c4ec29c..89e1218  master -> master

Go back into the first directory. Imagine that you've made a change before you try to pull:

    $ echo "Civil War Essay

    This is an essay about the Civil War.
    The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in areas still in rebellion [1]." > essay.txt
    $ git pull
    Updating c4ec29c..89e1218
    error: Your local changes to the following files would be overwritten by merge:
            essay.txt
    Please, commit your changes or stash them before you can merge.
    Aborting

Git notices that you've made a change to a file that is updated in a new commit
and tells you to commit your changes or get rid of them before pulling. Let's
commit and try again.

    $ git add essay.txt
    $ git commit -m 'Add title'
    [master 28cdc1f] Add title
     1 file changed, 2 insertions(+)
    $ git pull # save the default text Git gives you
    Auto-merging essay.txt
    Merge made by the 'recursive' strategy.
     essay.txt | 1 +
     1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
    $ cat essay.txt
    Civil War Essay

    This is an essay about the Civil War.
    The Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in areas still in rebellion [1].
    The Civil War sure was a war.
    $ git push

Notice that Git was really smart and intelligently merged in *both* changes
made to the file. In general, Git does the right thing in scenarios like this.

### Merge Conflicts

Sometimes, you can make 2 changes to a file that cannot be merged in any
obvious way. Let's see what happens in that case.

    $ echo "[2] Prince. Party Like It's 1999. 1982." >> bibliography.txt
    $ git commit -am 'Add a REALLY reputable source'
    [master f96694d] Add a REALLY reputable source
     1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
    $ git push
    Username for 'https://github.com': znewman01
    Password for 'https://znewman01@github.com': 
    Counting objects: 5, done.
    Delta compression using up to 4 threads.
    Compressing objects: 100% (3/3), done.
    Writing objects: 100% (3/3), 429 bytes | 0 bytes/s, done.
    Total 3 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
    To https://github.com/znewman01/civil-war-essay.git
       418c29c..f96694d  master -> master

Now go into the other repo and make a "simultaneous" change.

    $ cd ../civil-war-essay-2 
    $ echo "[2] Poison. Every Rose Has Its Thorn. 1988." >> bibliography.txt
    $ git add bibliography.txt
    $ git commit -m 'I listen to cheesy music'
    [master bc13021] I listen to cheesy music
     1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)

Pull in the upstream changes.

    $ git pull
    remote: Counting objects: 14, done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (5/5), done.
    remote: Total 9 (delta 4), reused 9 (delta 4)
    Unpacking objects: 100% (9/9), done.
    From github.com:znewman01/civil-war-essay
       89e1218..f96694d  master     -> origin/master
    Auto-merging bibliography.txt
    CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in bibliography.txt
    Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result.

Woah! What happened? Well, since there were two changes to the same part of the
same file (`bibliography.txt`), Git declared a "merge conflict". This means
that the merge cannot be made automatically and that a human (you!) must help
it out.

Let's see what the issue is by looking in `bibliography.txt`.

    $ cat bibliography.txt
    [1] Lincoln, Abraham. Emancipation Proclamation. 1860-something.
    <<<<<<< HEAD
    [2] Poison. Every Rose Has Its Thorn. 1988.
    =======
    [2] Prince. Party Like It's 1999. 1982.
    >>>>>>> f96694dbfd9fce90c29d73676a99685018985d12

Git helpfully inserts both changes into the file (the first change is what we
have locally; the second change is what's upstream). Our job is to make the
file look like it's supposed to, then let Git know.

Edit `bibliography.txt` until it looks like this:

    [1] Lincoln, Abraham. Emancipation Proclamation. 1860-something.
    [2] Poison. Every Rose Has Its Thorn. 1988.
    [3] Prince. Party Like It's 1999. 1982.

Note that we changed the number for the Prince song from `[2]` to `[3]`. Check
`git status`.

    $ git status
    # On branch master
    # Your branch and 'origin/master' have diverged,
    # and have 1 and 3 different commits each, respectively.
    #   (use "git pull" to merge the remote branch into yours)
    #
    # You have unmerged paths.
    #   (fix conflicts and run "git commit")
    #
    # Changes to be committed:
    #
    #       modified:   essay.txt
    #
    # Unmerged paths:
    #   (use "git add <file>..." to mark resolution)
    #
    #       both modified:      bibliography.txt
    #

Git tells us exactly what to do! We fixed the conflicts, and now we need to add
and commit our changes.

    $ git add bibliography.txt
    $ git commit
    [master 9fa452e] Merge branch 'master' of github.com:znewman01/civil-war-essay

Not so bad, was it? That's the general idea behind fixing merge conflicts: make
the file look like it would if you applied both changes intelligently, then
commit.

### Workflow

This brings us to the most basic possible "Git workflow". A "workflow" is an
organized way of working on a project.

Here, you simply keep the project as up to date as possible as you work on it,
making small and frequent commits. Each commit should leave the project in a
working state. Push with each commit, and pull frequently. Small commits mean
that merge conflicts are rarely an issue.

Git workflows get a lot more sophisticated, allowing the development of large
features independently from the rest of the codebase. For more on Git
workflows, consult the documentation in `man gitworkflows` or see
[Git flow](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/). Most Git
workflows heavily rely on the concept of "branches", which we haven't gotten to
yet, so they may not be useful or interesting yet.

## Tips and tricks

There are many, many Git tips and tricks, most of which require a pretty
in-depth understanding of Git. Here are a couple of dead-simple ones.

### Configuration

There are lots of ways to configure Git so that it behaves well. Here are a
couple of nice settings.

First, you should configure Git with your name and email so that it formats
commit messages properly.

    $ git config --global user.name "Your Name"
    $ git config --global user.email email@provider.com

Next, I always turn color on. This makes reading diffs, seeing the git status,
and reading logs much more pleasant.

    $ git config --global color.ui auto

This is on by default in very new releases of Git, but in many you have to do
it by hand.

### Add and Commit Together

If you would like to make a commit with all of the changes made to files in the
repo include, pass the `-a` flag to `git commit`.

    $ git commit -a -m 'Commit message'

Be careful with this; it's an easy way to include files in a commit that
weren't meant to be included.

## Next steps

If you need help at any point, the Git documentation is very good. You can use
the `man` command to see docs.

    $ man git # general Git help
    $ man git-add # help with the `git add` command; analogous pages exist for all commands

To learn a lot more about Git, see the book [Pro Git](http://git-scm.com/book),
available for free online. It goes into a lot of detail.

If you use Git and Google problems that you run into, you'll slowly learn a
lot. You can also bring problems to ADI events for help; many ADI members are
proficient with Git.

{% endraw %}

